---
layout: default
title: About
---

I am a Research Fellow at the University of Auckland, New Zealand  within the GIScience team in the Department of Environment. In my role we are developing a prototype of a Spatial Data Sovereignty tool. The project involves both designing and building a state-of-the-art web architecture and interface to mask, encrypt, and notarize spatial data. The project has a special interest in protecting indigenous data, specifically as it relates to forest biodiversity data. It comes at a particularly important moment for Aotearoa New Zealand, as there has been a surge in biodiversity challenges that require diverse datasets to be integrated into analysis – often containing sensitive and indigenous knowledge.

I have worked as a University Lecturer at the University of Fiji for two and a half years. I developed completely new courses by doing extensive subject area research. These courses, both at undergraduate and post graduate levels were based on emerging technologies and provide a strong industry focus. I emphasized on the practical aspect in these courses introducing latest technologies. I also undertook a number of projects: web and mobile application development projects using students. Students appreciated and were attracted to the practical nature of the courses. I took a ``coaching style'' approaches to accomplish student IT projects, including regularly staying behind to help students in their projects resulting in some very good software projects .

My research is mainly in the human and social aspects of software engineering. I take a socio-technical perspective, considering the interaction between the social and technical aspects of software engineering. Some of my current research projects include:
<ul>
<li><b>Automated Updates of Software Dependencies.</b> Most modern software systems depend on existing software components, such as packages, libraries, or modules. When critical issues (e.g. security vulnerabilities) are discovered and fixed in a software component, the dependent software systems should include these fixes by updating to the latest version. However, changes in a software component can cause critical failures in the dependent software if the new version includes breaking changes. Each software system that depends on the component will need to update their code to accommodate these breaking changes, making it difficult to automate the update process. This project is investigating novel, advanced methods to automate this process.</li>
<li><b>Software Developer Diversity and Inclusion.</b> Despite the recent push to increase diversity, tech jobs remain dominated by men. Women represent less than 25% of the tech workforce at companies like Google and Facebook. The representation is even worse in Open Source Software (OSS), where less than 10% of developers are women. We know that gender diversity on software teams brings many benefits (e.g., improved productivity, innovation, and user experience). It is, therefore, critical to attract and retain women in tech. Yet, women have significantly higher turnover rates (twice as high as men), with many leaving to pursue jobs outside of tech. This project is examining barriers to retention and best practices for inclusive software teams.</li>
<li><b>Automated Software Requirement Analytics.</b> The modern software landscape is highly competitive. Software companies need to quickly fix reported bugs and release requested new features, or they risk negative reviews and reduced market share. Online user feedback can provide software improvement insights to software developers. However, the sheer volume of feedback makes manual analysis time-consuming and cost- prohibitive. This project investigates automated techniques to extract and present software requirements from online user feedback data across a variety of feedback channels, for example app store reviews, social media, and question and answer forums. We are also investigating the representativeness of this feedback and how more diverse user needs can be considered by these techniques.</li>
</ul>

I have used a variety of both qualitative and quantitative empirical research methods including developing new methods and tools, text mining,
repository analysis, and social network analysis. My research has been published in the the proceedings of the these conferences: International Conference in Software Engineering (ICSE), International Conference in Information Systems (ICIS), International Conference in Evaluation and Assesment in Software Engineering (EASE), and Asia Pacific Software Engineering Conference (APSEC), among others. Check out my full <a href="/publications.html">list of publications</a>.<br>

Before starting at the University of Auckland, I was a lecturer at University of Fiji for two and a half years.
Prior to that, I was a Postdoctoral Fellow in the Software Engineering Global interAction Lab in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Victoria, Canada.

I have also worked in the industry for six years: both a software developer, database administrator and a business analyst at various public and private sector organisations. This includes roles where I worked with backend and frontend technologies. I have developed desktop, web and mobile applications using a number of languages. I have a good work ethic and I have constantly put my heart into development shown by the number of projects I have completed. 

I obtained my PhD from Otago University in 2021.
My <a href="./publications/blincoe_thesis.pdf" target="_blank">PhD dissertation</a> focused on methods to facilitate timely and efficient coordination between software developers. I recieved a MS in Computing Science from University of the South Pacific in 2007 and a BSc from the same University in 2001.<br>

I am  originally from Lautoka, Fiji. I currently live in Auckland, New Zealand with my wife.<br>
